-- 1. What query would you run to get all the countries that speak Slovene? Your query should return the name of the country, language and language percentage. Your query should arrange the result by language percentage in descending order.

SELECT countries.name, languages.language, languages.percentage

FROM countries

JOIN languages ON languages.country_id = countries.id

WHERE language = "Slovene"
ORDER BY languages.language DESC;

-- 2. What query would you run to display the total number of cities for each country? Your query should return the name of the country and the total number of cities. Your query should arrange the result by the number of cities in descending order.

SELECT COUNT(cities.name) AS Total_Count, countries.name

FROM countries

JOIN cities ON cities.country_id = countries.id

GROUP BY countries.name

ORDER BY COUNT(cities.name) DESC;

--3. What query would you run to get all the cities in Mexico with a population of greater than 500,000? Your query should arrange the result by population in descending order.

SELECT cities.name, cities.population

FROM cities

WHERE cities.country_code = 'MEX' 

AND cities.population > 500000

GROUP BY cities.population DESC;

--4. What query would you run to get all languages in each country with a percentage greater than 89%? Your query should arrange the result by percentage in descending order.

SELECT languages.language, languages.percentage, countries.name

FROM countries

JOIN languages ON languages.country_id = countries.id

WHERE languages.percentage > 89

GROUP BY  languages.percentage DESC;


--5. What query would you run to get all the countries with Surface Area below 501 and Population greater than 100,000?

SELECT countries.name, countries.surface_area, countries.population

FROM countries

WHERE countries.surface_area < 501

AND countries.population > 100000;

--6. What query would you run to get countries with only Constitutional Monarchy with a capital greater than 200 and a life expectancy greater than 75 years? 

SELECT countries.name, countries.government_form, countries.capital, countries.life_expectancy

FROM countries

WHERE countries.government_form = "Constitutional Monarchy"
AND countries.capital > 200

AND countries.life_expectancy > 75;

--7. What query would you run to get all the cities of Argentina inside the Buenos Aires district and have the population greater than 500, 000? The query should return the Country Name, City Name, District and Population

SELECT countries.name, cities.name, cities.district, cities.population

FROM countries

JOIN cities ON cities.country_id = countries.id

WHERE countries.name = "Argentina"

AND cities.district = "Buenos Aires"

AND cities.population > 500000;

--8. What query would you run to summarize the number of countries in each region? The query should display the name of the region and the number of countries. Also, the query should arrange the result by the number of countries in descending order

SELECT COUNT(countries.region) AS Num_in_Region, countries.region

FROM countries

GROUP BY countries.region

ORDER BY COUNT(countries.region) DESC;